.TH "U6A" "1" "Jan 30, 2020" "0.0.1" "U6A User Manual"
.
.SH NAME
u6a \- Runtime for the Unlambda programming language
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBu6a\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIbytecode\-file\fR
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Load and execute Unlambda bytecode from the given \fIbytecode\-file\fR, or \fBSTDIN\fR if "-" is given.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-stack\-segment\-size\=\fIelem\-count\fR
Specify size of each stack segment of Unlambda VM to \fIelem\-count\fR.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-pool\-size\fR=\fIelem\-count\fR
Specify size of object pool of Unlambda VM to \fIelem\-count\fR.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-info\fR
Print info (version, segment size, etc.) corresponding to the \fIbytecode\-file\fR, then exit.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-force\fR
Attempt to execute even when the \fIbytecode\-file\fR version is not compatible. Meanwhile, ignore unrecognizable instructions and data during execution. 
.TP
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Prints help message, then exit.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Prints version number, then exit.
.
.SH NOTES
.SS Bytecode Files
.TP
Version compatiblility:
Definition of Unlambda bytecode may differ across multiple versions of u6a. Execution result is guaranteed to be consistent when both MAJOR and MINOR versions of bytecode file and the interpreter matches. Otherwise, the code may not work as expected and the interpreter will refuse to execute unless \fB-f\fR option is provided.
.TP
Redundant data:
While reading data from \fIbytecode\-file\fR, any bytes before the first occurrence of magic number \fI0xDC\fR is ignored. The same is true for bytes after \fI.rodata\fR segment, however, if read from \fBSTDIN\fR, they could be read by the current Unlambda program.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBu6ac\fR(1)
.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C)  2020  CismonX <admin@cismon.net>.
.br
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.br
A copy of the license is included in \fIman/LICENSE\fR.
