.TH "U6A" "1" "Jan 30, 2020" "0.0.1" "U6A User Manual"
.
.SH NAME
u6ac \- Bytecode compiler for the Unlambda programming language
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBu6ac\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIsource\-file\fR
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Read and compile Unlambda code from the given \fIsource\-file\fR, or \fBSTDIN\fR if "-" is given. Compilation result is saved in a special bytecode format, which can be executed with \fBu6a\fR(1).
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output\fR=\fIout\-file\fR
Save compiled bytecode to \fIout\-file\fR, defaults to \fIsource\-file\fR name with ".bc" suffix, or \fBSTDOUT\fR if the source file is read from \fBSTDIN\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-add\-prefix\fR[=\fIprefix\-string\fR]
Add \fIprefix\-string\fR to the beginning of \fIout\-file\fR. Defaults to "#!/usr/bin/env u6a\\n".
.TP
\fB\-O[\fIoptimization\-level\fR]
Compile-time optimization level. \fB\-O0\fR: Turn off optimization. \fB\-O1\fR(default): Turn on basic optimizations, including constant folding & propagation, dead code elimination, etc.
.TP
\fB\-\-syntax\-only\fR
Only check for lexical and syntactic correctness of the source file, and skips bytecode generation.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Print extra debug messages to \fBSTDOUT\fR. When this option is enabled, \fIout\-file\fR should not be \fBSTDOUT\fR.
.TP
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Prints help message, then exit.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Prints version number, then exit.
.
.SH NOTES
.SS Unlambda
.TP
Language features:
All features of Unlambda 2.0 are supported, including I/O functions, continuations and promises.
.TP
Comments:
Text in line comments is not restricted to ASCII only. UTF-8 format is also supported.
.TP
Function names:
Charactor X in functions \fB.X\fR and \fB?X\fR must be printable ASCII or "\\n" (beware if you are using Windows-style newlines), and are case-sensitive. Other builtin function names are case-insensitive.
.SS Code Size
Unlambda code size should not be larger than 4MiB (not counting comments and whitespaces). You may change this limit in \fIdefs.h\fR and rebuild u6a for larger code to compile.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBu6a\fR(1)
.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C)  2020  CismonX <admin@cismon.net>.
.br
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.br
A copy of the license is included in \fIman/LICENSE\fR.
